---
layout: post
title:  "Book Review - 2001: A Space Odssey"
date:   2021-02-07 
categories: Book Review
---

2001: A Space Odyssey. Visited 20 years after the author Arthur C. Clarke imagined his book to take place.

2001 is a book built on the hope and optimism during the golden age of the space race. Arthur C. Clarke collaborated with Stanley Kubrick to bring a grand visionary tour of the solar system to the reader. It is one of those rare instances where the book was tailored to fit the rigid format of film. 

The book starts with the humble beginnings and dawn of man from a lowly ape who goes by the name of moon-watcher and fast forwards to the near future were humanity had begun to take its baby steps into the solar system. The reader soon discovers that the moon base on Clavius has been quarantined for mysterious reasons, a researcher is then dispatched from earth to uncover the truth, which then leads to a grand trip to the moons of Saturn with a group of humans and an overly conscious AI called HAL. 
I enjoyed the story, pacing and structure of the book. The plot and main themes are that of exploration, destiny, and the double-edged sword of technology. A small book with big themes. 

These themes have parallels now in the year 2021. Although, we have never sent humans to Saturn or Jupiter (or their moons) humanity’s grasp of the solar system extends even further with every year. Three missions to Mars launched in 2020 are all due to arrive on the red plant in early 2021 with noble goals of exploration, research, and scientific endeavour. The orbiter and two rovers that have been sent on these voyages have their own on-board computers, although nowhere near as advance as HAL they are able to command and make decision for themselves, most notably Perseverance (NASA) which will take command during its own landing sequence. 

It is amazing how far AI and Technology have advanced; however, we must take note. We have AI on earth used by big technology companies that although were created for the intention of togetherness and collaboration they have created an endless feed of fake new and small nuggets of misinformation, that, if we are not careful in the future may create our own personal echo chambers of prejudice and stereotypes. It humanity does not work together we may never reach the lofty grand scope of 2001: A Space Odyssey. 

Overall, 2001 is a small book that with deep thoughts into the destiny of man. I would recommend anyone to read the book (or watch the movie). I just hope we get to see the grand vision of space exploration actualised. 
